Namo Buddha Shakyamuni. (Heart-viewing,
complete contemplation) Please continue reading the
question regarding the recitation of the Great Compassion Mantra.
Dear Madam, I see that
many people are reciting the Great Compassion Mantra. I have
researched the origin of the Great Compassion Mantra
in the Sutra of the Thousand-Handed, Thousand-Eyed
Avalokiteshvara Bodhisattva, which states: "The vast, perfect,
unobstructed, great compassion of the Bodhisattva Avalokiteshvara, quoted from the
website ditk.net, says: 'If a
woman is weary of her female body and wishes to be
reborn as a man, and she recites this verse of the Great Compassion
Mantra, even if she does not transform from a
woman into a man in the next life, she will not
attain
enlightenment. Even if she harbors a little doubt, she
will not succeed. If any sentient being
encroaches upon or depletes the wealth and
food of the monastic community, even if 1000 Buddhas
appear in the world, they will not
have the opportunity to repent. Even if they do repent, the sin will
not be eradicated. But now, when they recite the
Great Compassion Mantra, that sin is immediately dispelled. If
anyone encroaches upon or depletes the wealth
and food of the monastic community, they
must repent before the Buddhas of the five directions to
eradicate it.'  But now, when they recite the Great Compassion Mantra, all the
Buddhas of the Four Directions will come to
witness that all karmic obstacles will be eradicated.
All evil deeds and grave sins, such as the ten
evil deeds, the five heinous crimes, insulting
others, slandering the Dharma, breaking
precepts, stealing from monks, and
defiling those who practice pure conduct,
will all be eradicated. Except for one thing: if one
harbors doubt about this mantra, even
minor sins and light karmic actions will not be
eradicated, let alone grave sins. Although grave
sins may not be immediately eradicated, they
can still create the conditions for Buddhahood later.
After reading this passage, I have
two questions: Why did the Buddha preach
this sutra, and even repenting before 1000 Buddhas
did not erase the sin of stealing from the common people,
while reciting the Great Compassion Mantra eradicated the sin?
Does this mean that one Great Compassion Mantra
can have more power than 1000 Buddhas?
Is it true that reciting the Great Compassion Mantra will
eradicate all sins? If so,
then one can commit evil deeds like murder, theft, and embezzlement,
and then recite the Great Compassion Mantra...  Will the
sins be erased? I've been wondering about
this for a long time and haven't found a
satisfactory answer. I hope you can explain it to me so I
can understand. Thank you very much.
Dear fellow practitioners, the
question is very valid because if there were
Buddhas appearing in this world,
and repenting before 1000 Buddhas
didn't erase the sins, but reciting the Great Compassion Mantra would, then the
sins would be erased. That's something
we all doubt.
For example, consider the sins of Devadatta and Brahma-sacrificing the
Buddha Shakyamuni.
If he had the karmic connection—
this is the mind-perceiving, the complete contemplation—then his
sins would be erased. He would
n't be condemned to hell, even though his sins were
very serious. His sins were causing the
Buddha's body to bleed and disrupting the harmony of the Sangha;
these were the five heinous crimes, not
minor ones. Yet, if he had the karmic
connection and met the Buddha Shakyamuni and repented, his sins would be erased.
Regarding Mr.
Xiao Shi, did the Buddha Shakyamuni
know that he didn't have the karmic affinity to meet the Buddha?
The Buddha Shakyamuni knew that he
went to repentance, to the lotus pond, and went
down to wash himself to get rid of the
smell of scabies before repenting
to the Buddha. When he went down to the pond to
wash and bathe, the ground cracked and
he was pulled down to the bottom. The Buddha knew
everything. The Buddha knew that the evil deeds
he had committed prevented him from having the karmic affinity to
meet the Buddha and repent,
because this sin was a fixed karma that made it impossible to meet the Buddha. That is, he had
no karmic affinity to meet the Buddha. But if he had the karmic affinity to
meet the Buddha and repent,
these five heinous sins would be
eradicated. Yet here it says that even if he
met 1000 Buddhas and repented to 1000
Buddhas, his sins wouldn't be
eradicated. I think we need to re-examine
this translation of the sutra.
We are not the
Buddha, so we shouldn't doubt it because the Buddha
taught in the lesson on faith, and
we have heard it, so we must...  Thinking that it
's
good and beneficial,
we then believe it. If we hear
this, we'll develop this mindset: "Even if you
meet 1000 Buddhas, it's
not equal to me reciting the Great Compassion Mantra
once." If that's the case, we've
already committed a sin against the Buddha and
don't understand the law of cause and effect.
Among the eight so-called "eight sins," being born
before the Buddha and being born after the Buddha is one
sin. The sin is not meeting the Buddha
to practice and receive his salvation. And
yet, they say that meeting 1000
Buddhas is not equal to reciting the Great Compassion Mantra,
and that reciting the Great Compassion Mantra
eliminates all serious sins, all past
sins.
We should examine this, dear fellow
practitioners: contemplate karma. If I had cheated or stolen, I would have lost property now. But if I had kept the precepts and not stolen, my finances would be comfortable and I would
n't have to struggle financially.
No one will deceive you, no one will
lie to you, no one will lie to you, no one will take
even a single penny from you. So
now, dear fellow practitioners, please sit and recite the Great
Compassion Mantra a thousand times. Then,
dear fellow practitioners, do your business and see if you experience any
losses. If you do experience losses,
it proves that your karmic sins haven't been
completely eradicated, right?
We can easily verify this.
All those sins are eradicated. So,
we must have committed the sin of filial impiety for our
children to be unfilial to us; that is
karma. Now, dear fellow practitioners, try reciting the Great Compassion Mantra
1000 times. See if your children
become filial. If they
truly become filial, it proves that
this statement is true and genuine, so
we can verify it. As
for the statement that meeting
1000 Buddhas to repent is not as good as reciting the
Great Compassion Mantra because reciting the Great Compassion Mantra
will bring the Buddhas of the Ten Directions to witness
your repentance, this statement is utterly incomprehensible and
cannot be believed or followed.
This explanation is unbelievable and
cannot be accepted
because meeting a Buddha to whom
one can repent is already a great blessing.
Truly, the opportunity to meet a Buddha
to repent is a very auspicious one.
Buddhas are very rare in this world, dear fellow
practitioners. Meeting a
Buddha is very rare, not easy at all. The Great Compassion Mantra was
also taught by the Buddha. To say that the
Buddha taught a single verse of the
Great Compassion Mantra is not equal to having a
Buddha in this world is not equal to having a Buddha.
Because when we
repent, if the Buddha is present, then the
Buddha will tell us what our
sins are, what sins we have committed, and
guide us on how to practice.
But now, we don't know what sins we have committed.
Now, dear fellow practitioners, with a
mindful contemplation, try reciting the Great Compassion Mantra once and
see if you know what
your sins are. It's not that difficult. I only
say, "I am here today because from a previous life, due to beginningless greed, hatred, and delusion,
arising from body, speech, and mind. I
will recite the Mantra."  The Great
Compassion Mantra is the ultimate repentance ritual. Even if we
recite it once or even 1000 times,
we still won't know
what sins we've committed. Now,
dear friends, consider this: business losses,
illness, children going astray, infidelity in the
husband—
try to see what sins you've committed that
led to
this. No matter how much you recite, you still won't
know.
Except for those who have practiced
extensively, who have attained enlightenment, who
uphold the precepts, who have a pure mind and body,
who recite the precepts and the Great Compassion Mantra,
that person must have accumulated
many other merits, not
just the merit of reciting the Great
Compassion Mantra. So, here, the mind-
body contemplation will analyze it for you
clearly. If all the sins of stealing from the
monastery and all the five heinous sins—
all the sins
we've committed since beginningless time—are
eradicated by reciting the Great Compassion Mantra, then it proves that
after reciting the Great Compassion Mantra, our lives will
turn a new page.  No, dear fellow practitioners, let's move on to the next
page. There's no more karmic retribution. Once
the sins are eradicated, the karmic retribution is over. And when the karmic
retribution is over, of course, one
should live a happy life, not a
life of suffering. If there is still suffering, it
means you are still bearing the karmic consequences of the past. For example, if you
owe someone 100
million, after you recite the Great Compassion Mantra, they become compassionate and
forgiving, and don't
take your money anymore. Your sins are gone, and no
one can blame you anymore.
The sin of the previous debt is also eradicated,
right? The sin of the
previous debt is also gone. Or, if you just cheated someone, the sins of lying
and deception are still present. After reciting the Great Compassion
Mantra, you'll see if
they still cling to the idea of ​​cheating. If
they still cling to it, it means that sin has
n't been eradicated yet. And if this sin isn't eradicated,
how can the old sin be eradicated? Then, if
not, then the
sin of the previous deception must also be eradicated. That's why...
We must think critically, not just blindly follow whatever is
said to be true.
We must have critical thinking and discernment. The
Buddha clearly taught us that his
disciples must have wisdom. Therefore,
regarding the translation of scriptures or
other things, the mind should be focused and
discerning, without giving opinions. However,
we should still be discerning. That's why the
Buddha taught us: don't hastily
believe something just because it's written in the scriptures, don't
hastily believe something just because it's said by a
spiritual master. After hearing it, if it's good,
we must examine it.
If practicing it will bring
benefits, then we should practice it.
That means we think critically. If
practicing it will bring benefits, then
we must examine it again.
Practice and examine simultaneously to see if it's true. Only then should
we believe it. So now,
dear fellow practitioners, try borrowing or defrauding someone of
a million dong, then
recite that mantra and see if they forget about
the deception the next day. If they don't,
then the sin of deception remains; how can it be
eradicated?  So what kind of sin is it?
Fraud, theft, or
adultery? If someone commits adultery
today, they come home and recite mantras to expel all their
sins. Then the
day after tomorrow they commit
adultery again, and after that, they recite mantras to expel all their
sins. So, does that mean the
mantra is condoning evil deeds for sentient beings? No, it's
not. Reciting mantras is
a means to purify
our minds. We remember the mantra to awaken
ourselves and stop evil deeds.
We recite mantras so that we can have the
protection of Dharma Protectors, making it
easier to do good deeds and giving us
more motivation. That's all, dear fellow practitioners. As for the karma
we create, we
ourselves must perform good deeds; we
cannot simply recite a mantra or expect the
Buddha to grant us absolution.
That's not possible. The Buddha
is the one who teaches us to
practice the Dharma to expel our sins. And
we receive blessings from the Buddha; when
we pay homage to the Buddha, we
generate more merit.  Dear fellow practitioners,
worshipping Buddha brings blessings, it
fosters a respectful heart,
and through worshipping Buddha, we receive the
protection of Dharma protectors in our good deeds.
Even with
this protection, we still have to do
good deeds; it doesn't just happen naturally. Good deeds don't automatically yield
results. For example, if we don't
work, even if the Dharma protectors want to, they ca
n't. So
we have to work, then
worship Buddha and the Dharma protectors to generate blessings, and only then can we
hope for
their help in doing good deeds and their
protection to reap
benefits.
If we do nothing, just
eat from morning till night, only go to worship Buddha, and
do nothing else, how can we pray for
wealth? It's
impossible to become wealthy.
We must work, then
worship Buddha, repent, practice, and then ask for
their protection so that our work will
be successful.  It's only when things are good that we
have something for the
benevolent and wise external protectors to support us. If we
don't take action ourselves, the
benevolent and wise external protectors won't know
how to help us.
Here, we practice, but we
must also examine things very carefully.
We shouldn't overemphasize the value of
mantras. For example,
there's the mantra about the Seven Buddhas who eradicate
sins, which is the name of seven Buddhas who
eradicate all sins. So, in the
morning, we do evil deeds, and
then in the evening we recite the Seven Buddhas who eradicate sins,
as if the Buddha is a tool for
us to eradicate our sins.
So what is the Buddha?
What is the Buddha? We are trying to define the Buddha,
right? Therefore, in our
practice, we must be
clear-minded and think thoroughly about
cause and effect. The cause of suffering is our mind,
so to
eradicate suffering, we must start from our own mind. We must
eradicate it, and this process continues.  We
practice to eliminate suffering, eradicate greed, do good deeds, and uphold precepts.
We can recite mantras and
ask the deities for
their blessings so that we can do
good things. It's not about
sitting idly, committing sins, and then reciting
mantras to erase them all. That's
delusion; it's
unrealistic, unwise, and not in accordance
with the law of cause and effect. No one can bestow
blessings or curses upon you; you
yourself bestow blessings
by showing respect to those worthy of respect,
distinguishing right from wrong,
practicing right views, and practicing good deeds.
The deities and Dharma protectors are your
guardians, helping
you to be diligent in practicing good
deeds. Because you are
diligent in good deeds, you will
enjoy happiness, my dear fellow practitioners.
Therefore, I, Tâm Chiếu Hoàn Quán, would like to
share my opinion
on this matter. Let's
not rely too much on the power of mantras, as it can
cause us more suffering, and
our families will suffer, and our children will go astray.  When things go
wrong, and the economy suffers,
we become complacent and
do nothing. We just sit and chant mantras,
but when we chant endlessly and
see no results, we become troubled, and
we ourselves become troubled.
Therefore, I, the enlightened one,
share this with you, fellow practitioners. This is a
true experience, a
practical application of the Dharma, so I
speak with certainty. Therefore, you, fellow
practitioners, can
experience this for yourselves by chanting mantras and
seeing if all
your karma is
completely eradicated. Today, we
can chant mantras until morning and see if all karma is
eradicated. A person whose
karma is eradicated will no longer suffer karmic consequences.
Therefore, all business and everything else will
change tomorrow.
So, you must be vigilant in
this matter and thoroughly examine and think.
We must take the
precepts as our teacher. In the Sutra of the Buddha's Last Teachings, the
Buddha taught that the Dharma is the lamp, and the
precepts are our teacher, so that we may purify ourselves.  Purify
your mind so that we can transform our karma and rise
from ordinary to saintly, don't rely solely
on chanting mantras.
That's just a matter of circumstance; you
should let it happen when you need it. If you
want your mind to be free from attachments, you can
chant mantras and receive the blessings
of the deities. However, I
still advise my fellow practitioners that
if we
sit together for 15 minutes, we
can chant mantras, but for those 15 minutes, we
can meditate according to the Noble Eightfold Path.
Whatever is hindering
our minds, whatever defilements are causing them, we can contemplate to
release them. By releasing them,
we will be able to control the situation, which is much
more effective than sitting and chanting mantras
to ask for the deities' blessings.
But we must be truly sincere,
earnest, and pure-hearted to receive
blessings. If we chant with a greedy mind, there will be no protection.
So, chanting mantras is a matter of circumstance, but it is
essential to cultivate the mind, being mindful every
second, every minute, mindful in every aspect of life.  Let
us purify our minds and
transform our karma as quickly as possible.
Wishing all fellow practitioners diligent practice.
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni
[music]
[Applause]
K
[music]